---
title: Chapter 3
linktitle: Chapter 3
type: book
date: "2019-05-05T00:00:00+01:00"
# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 4
---

Danny took a long look at his grandson. The last two weeks have been amazing. He thought of the first time they had met. His long-estranged daughter had contacted him a few years back. The memories forced a grin as he explored his feelings.
His daughter had learned that he'd move to Oregon from California and called out of the blue. She'd been so defensive, and somehow desperate for a connection with them at the same time. They talked for about an hour that first time. The conversation had ended with an invitation for her and her family to come and visit the new property. She had been positive but noncommittal. He suspected that her husband was behind the reluctance.
Danny's suspicion about his daughter's husband was further confirmed that summer. Jane and her two children showed up that summer without their father. "He didn't want to interfere with our reunion," she offered. He let it go but made a mental note. Jane and her kids stayed for two weeks. Both this visit at that first, Danny would mark as some of the happiest times in his life.
These last two weeks though had been more. Nickolas had been nothing like Danny's expectation. He'd proven to be amiable and thoughtful. Nick was easy to talk to if a little weird for a fourteen-year-old. Danny had felt a great unburdening taking place inside of himself as they worked and talked. No, Nick was not a normal kid, and Danny believed that was for the better. He had been an unusual boy himself.
Danny had been a small kid from the Bronx. An easy target for bullies and thugs until his uncle had introduced him to judo. His uncle, a former naval serviceman had practiced the art in the academy. When he learned of young Danny's troubles he had felt bad for his sister's kid. He remembered that Danny had a youthful admiration for Teddy Roosevelt. So he had regaled the lad with stories of the American president's exploits. He led up to how it had been Pres. Roosevelt had paved the way for Judo in America. With that introduction, he had convinced Danny to give the mysterious Japanese art a go.
He had been twelve years old and the ninety-minute train ride to and from the dojo seem to drag on and on. He could still remember fighting off sleep every evening on the way home. He had wanted to quit so many times over that first cold and dark winter. His uncle had extracted from him a promise not to embarrass the family name and to stick with it until summer.
The turning point came in the spring. It was early March and still cold. Down every side street, dirty brown gravel filled snowbanks filled sat melting. Jimmy Sorrell was about six-foot-tall already and weighed in close to 200 pounds. As a big eighth-grader, he towered over seventh grade Danny's small 5'5" frame. Jimmy had already tormented Danny all through sixth grade. Recently he seemed to be ramping up on the cruelty. Later Danny would learn that Jimmy's dad had started a bender over the holidays that would cost him his job.

Jimmy and his entourage caught Danny leaving the library, "hey scrub, you been dodging me? "To this day Danny couldn't explain why, but on that day he had had enough. "Go bleed someone else grease ball," he'd fired back. Danny told the principal and later his mother and father that Jimmy had started the fight. But he had known the insult would provoke a swing without question. He had been ready with a simple hip throw. Jimmy had been anything but ready for the hard concrete floors of the middle school. The result was more than Danny had planned for and left him with a feeling of shame.
Looking back from more than half a century later he couldn't remember what happened next. Not even if he and Jimmy had become friends before the war or not. He could remember that they'd already been friends when wound up in the same regiment. A ninety-six-day campaign had culminated in the Italian liberation. But the Germans had rescued Mussolini and now occupied the north of the country. The platoon was set to march to the Sangro River area in a few days. Danny reported to field command to receive new troops. He had been happy to see Jimmy among the group assigned to him.
On the 22cd of November, the 8th Army Marched on Sangro. They broke through the German line ten days later on December 1st. Danny could remember almost none of those ten days. What he could never forget was how Jimmy's helmet fell off one evening. He had been laughing as he finished clearing the perimeter for their new campsite. The helmet flipped off his head. He turned to make eye contact with the most innocent and blank look on his face as if confused. A fraction of a second later Jimmy crumpled to the ground like an abandoned marionette. A distant retort sounded and a voice somewhere nearby yelled "sniper!" He can remember rough hands dragging him to the ground but he is forever still staring into Jimmy's eyes. The helmet, wet and full of brains in the periphery as Jimmy stares back.
"This boy, no this young man, reminds me of Jimmy," Danny reflected as he stared up at Nicholas. He was tall and dark hair with a hint of mischief in his smile. He remembered the gangly teen that arrived with Jane two summers before. All elbows, pimples, and dark circles under his eyes.
Nick was still too skinny by far, but he had filled out enough to hint at the man that he would become. Danny had expected him to be more like Jimmy in attitude as well, but that had proven false. When Jane had called after Halloween to ask for help. Nick had been suspended for fighting and then arrested for shoplifting in the same week.
Danny had been all too eager to help, not wanting to lose his still tenuous connection to his daughter. Nicholas had arrived by bus late Friday evening on the last day of November fifteen days ago. He had been quiet and respectful on that first Saturday. He had also seemed deflated and melancholy all day. Then had come the big walk.

Nicholas ate breakfast with them on Sunday morning. His mood seeming a little more cheerful and talkative. After breakfast, he helped Jeannie clean the stables and work out the horses. Later as Jeannie had been making lunch Danny had explained their upcoming project.
Danny was explaining the next day, when Nick blurted out, "would be all right for me to go explore the area after lunch?" Jeannie brought in a hearty chili for lunch then. Nick took a bowl and leaned in over it to begin eating in the way that only teenagers do. Danny met Jeannie's eyes. "I don't see the harm," she communicated with her eyes. "Sure take the dogs with you. They know their way around this place and they never get enough exercise from us old codgers."
"Yeah, no problem," he mumbled around a large mouthful. He was already finishing his bowl. He wrapped two pieces of cornbread in a paper towel. Shoving them into his jacket pocket while standing up. "Okay then, see you guys later."
"Slow down there Hoss," Jeannie said with a smile. "Let me pack you a few more things while you put on something warmer. You need a nice pair of boots if you're gonna go walking around out there." She disappeared into the kitchen. Calling back to Danny over her shoulder, "would you go grab Michael's pullovers and parka." Michael was Jeannie's only son and he kept a few things here in the spare bedroom for when he visited. Danny took stock of Nick. He was taller than Michael even if Michael outweighed him by 50 pounds, but the parka would fit.
He ducked off down the hallway came back with a large pair of rubber galoshes and a thick fur-lined parka.
Jeannie came back in with a small shoulder bag containing two sandwiches and a thermos of water. "Where are your gloves hon?"
"Right here in my pocket," he laughed, "I'm fine guys I may be a city kid but I go hiking all the time. Sometimes I think it's the only thing that keeps me from going crazy," he said drifting off a little bit at the end. "Anyway, really I'll be fine, thank you".

And with that, he called for the dogs and made his way out the door. He had been gone for a little over 10 hours. When he made it back that night and Danny recalled how his left palm looked burned and bloodied.
Over dinner that night Nicholas looked on the verge of an emotional breakdown. Danny hadn't asked about the boy's gloves or the lunch box. In the morning he woke up with Jeannie and accompanied her out to the horse stalls. They talked for a few moments until she finally asked what he was up. He told her he was going to take his little red ATV and follow Nick's tracks until he found the missing gear.

Fifteen minutes later behind the orchard, he came to a slope. He was looking for a way down. The idea of taking the little three-wheeler down the treacherous slope didn't sit well. Instead, he took a detour that added another 10 minutes to his journey. The tracks led to a small ravine with the lunch box sitting at the bottom next to a little fire pit.

There was a strange sulfur-like smell at the bottom of the little dell. The air had a cramped and cloying quality to it. As he made his way around the campfire to retrieve the lunch box he realized that he was not a campfire at all. First, he realized they weren't any consumables and second he realized there wasn't any ash. Still, something had burned the grass around the edges of a small hole. The hole itself was carbon black and he was sure a pungent odor was emanating from here. He bent down for a closer look and found what looked to be a large piece of charcoal about two and a half inches in size. With his palm about to close on the object, he paused, disoriented.
Danny stared at the black lump, examining it with more care. The feeling of was watching had him on edge and he could not shake a feeling of wrongness. Danny stood. With a slow, careful determination he covered the hole using his boot to scrape earth over the object. He found the gloves next to the lunchbox. After collecting the items he came for he turned his back on the scene and didn't look back. The entire episode had unnerved him and he had been trying to make sense of it over the last 13 days.

"When will the car be delivered?" Nick asked, breaking Danny's ruminations. "I didn't expect us to be done this early'" he replied with a chuckle. "It won't be here until Friday after New Year's." "Damn! I wanted to see that faded Chevy red before you restored her." Nick had a faraway look as he spoke, "there is something about the way it turns brown that reminds me of." He seemed to cut himself off mid-thought with a visible shake of the head and a wistful smile. "Well nevermind, I will just have to come back for spring break, if that's okay?"
Nothing about Nick made Danny uncomfortable. There was something about his mannerisms that was wholly incongruous. At the moment though, he was looking expectant, "I would like that," Danny said. "Come on let's get cleaned up. Last time you were here you told me you were a Lyons fan." Danny teased on the way back to the cabin, "tonight is their last game of the season. We can eat dinner with the game on if you want."
Nick paused, "against Chicago?" He asked. He looked excited, "that sounds like a plan," he said as they reached the deck.
