---
title: Chapter 2
linktitle: Chapter 2
type: book
date: "2019-05-05T00:00:00+01:00"

# Prev/next pager order (if `docs_section_pager` enabled in `params.toml`)
weight: 3
---

Something was terribly wrong.

Nick’s head was imploding in a massive bear trap of pain. Waves of nausea threatened to spill his stomach. Vertigo tore away all references. He screamed, surprised to hear his voice. "This is far more violent than I thought it would be," rolling to his side he heaved the contents of his stomach. He practiced his breathing to try to stave off the panic. "This can't be how I go," he grimaced.
It wasn't.

The pain was receding. He continued breathing, eyes screwed shut blocking out everything else. A dog, an unmistakable dog nose, and tiny black tongue were licking around the hands that covered his face. The little animal radiated excitement.

_Who would let a dog into an ICU?_

It was now licking his ear, and it tickled. The thought was shocking, but he began to laugh anyway. He tried to roll away from the little beast, amazed at how easy it was. The dog followed onto his chest. He opened his eyes as it occurred to him that he was moving his arms. He shouldn't be able to do that, much less rollover or fend off a licking attack from a schnauzer?
The little black face was inches from his. He could sense the anxiety from the little creature as a stepped up and down on his chest. He was outside. On the ground. In a forest. He knew then that he had died.

"Well, I guess dogs really do go to heaven," he chuckled aloud. His voice sounded strong, and... Young! He sat up. It felt amazing in its easy simplicity. The cancer had kept him weak through chemo, which hadn't worked.
There was a dusting snowfall and the small dog was still sitting in his lap. He deposited it on the ground and stood. He was in a shallow ravine. Pine trees stood Sentinel around the opening edges. Here on the floor, the ground was dry, but he could see snow lining the crests around the little valley. He turned in a slow circle with a growing sense of wonder. He was alive! Nothing hurt, the cold mountain air raced in and out of his lungs.

As he turned his eyes fell upon another dog sitting a few strides away eyeing him with its head cocked. There was something familiar about this dog. She was a gray and black Australian Shepherd with one bright blue eye. The other eye was almost ice white. He had only ever seen heterochromia with that combination once in his life.

He had been a teen of 14 or 15 years. He'd shipped off to spend time with his mother's father. His parents had been a train-wreck for a few years. His father had left about that time, but in the year or so leading up to the split, Nicholas had found no end of trouble. Which landed him with his grandfather in the mountains outside of Medford Oregon. It had been a turning point in his life. His grandfather, who refused the aged and moniker of "grandpa," had been the first real male role model for him. He found himself smiling at the memory of the old man who had died a few years after that trip when Nicholas was 17. He'd been heartbroken.
G. O. D.
Grand Old Dad, that was how he had signed his letters to Nicholas. They had exchanged many, right up until the night before he died. Nicholas had addressed them D. O. G. in return, which stood for Dear Old Granddad. G.O.D. had Two dogs, a shepherd like this one named Pepper and...A small miniature schnauzer named Pumpkin.
Ice exploded across the back of his skull. A chill like nothing he had ever experienced crept down his arms and back up to his neck. The world seemed to tilt a little on its axis and he looked closer at the dogs. The little one was still dancing at his feet. He bent down and picked it up. "Pumpkin?" He whispered. The shepherd stood and issued a single sharp bark. Still seeming unsure and keeping her distance. "Pepper," he asked with a little more confidence. She was a blur of motion bouncing over to him and barking in exuberance. Both dogs wagged with exaggeration.
This was a moment from his life, he remembered it. Was this his life flashing before his eyes? No, this was something else. He was still in the hospital bed dreaming. That didn't feel right either. His skin was still crawling up and down his arms. He was starting to perspire, his heart was pounding. Somehow he was here. He did another circle, trying to recall the way back to his grandfather's cabin." Let's go home pepper," he called and the Aussie dog took off up one side of the valley. He ran after her swallowing tears at the pure joy of it.

The top of the ravine flattened out to a gentle sloping pine forest. The dog, pepper was about 20 yards up the hill looking back over her shoulder. He continued at a trot. He found himself following a ridge of close-packed birch trees. The forest was becoming more familiar with every step. The dog took a sudden left turn up a small embankment. The steep hill forcing him to set the little schnauzer as far up the hill as he could. The black dog had no problem with scrambling up the rest of the hill. Nicholas reached overhead grabbing one of the thin birch trees. Then with one large step and a pull he was halfway up the hill. He couldn't suppress a giggle.
A quarter-mile later he stopped at the edge of an apple orchard. Nick's grandfather, Danny, built a decent two-bedroom log cabin not far from here. He had sold his moderate Hollywood ranch and his publishing company in the late '70s. He and his third wife, Jeannie, had used the cash to buy 20 acres near the Talent Creek area south of Medford. The land had come with an aging mule and two hundred feet of driveway to an old shed that served as its home. Danny had cleared the flattest 4 acres or so right off of the drive.

They had built the cabin around the old RV they had driven up from California. Jeanie was a horse trainer and a schoolteacher in Medford. She bought a few horses, to keep company with the mule, and expanded the shed into a stable. The only road in the area boarded the northern side of the property. A rabbit farm to the west and an apple orchard ran down the southern end of the Western border.
Nick began to run through the orchard in earnest. The old mule should be in the gully that ran between the two properties. The apples would roll down to the side of the creek. The lazy mule would spend most of his days down there. Eating, and sleeping with as little movement as possible. Arriving on the other side of the apple trees out of breath, Nick stared at the absence of a mule. He reprimanded himself for getting carried away. He turned back to wait for Pumpkin to catch up. He lifted the little dog into his arms asking, "well the two of you are here, was it that outrageous to think it was then?"
Ten minutes later he heard the braying of a mule. The wood-smoke visible through the trees signaled he was close.

_Of course, there aren't any apples on the ground in winter._

Pepper raced off toward the cabin and he set down pumpkin who happily followed the larger dog. Nick continued after them.

As Nickolas trunched up the path to the cabin he heard the door open. He looked up to see the smiling face of Jeanie standing at the side of the cabin.
"Did you have yourself an adventure?" She asked. "We were starting to get a little worried. You've been out here a long time."
"Well don't just stand there, get in and get warm," She started to turn away and then paused. "Are you okay hun? Have you been crying?"
Nick stood staring, mouth agape. Jeanie was young! Not yet fifty. He rifled his memory with a smattering of calculus to arrive at the conclusion that she was less than fifty. It hadn't occurred to him that his grandfather had married a woman more than twenty years his junior.

_How do I do this? What is this! Am I fourteen again? How do I talk like a teenager, what the fuck!_

His hands were shaking and his voice cracked as he answered. "everything is fine Jeanie, just lost track of time." The rest of the evening was a blur of overwhelming emotions. Memories, sixty years old, superimposed themselves in real-time. The next day he and his grandfather were set to clear a small patch of land near the bend in the drive. It was to be for a new garage. Danny was a classic car enthusiast. The story was, that he needed the extra space to rebuild his newest project car.

The entire project wreaked of a manufactured intervention aimed at a troubled youth. Yet another detail of his own life he'd missed in the first go-'round. It had been effective though. Nick had been much changed by this trip and the time they had spent working on the garage. He had even returned once during the summer a year later to see the finishing touches to the old Chevy Corvette. It had been in time to go with his grandfather to the regional auto show. He remembered feeling pride at seeing Danny happy. Witnessing the warmth and respect that the old man was given made a lasting impression on the youth he had been. He had more than bonded with Danny Avery over those two trips. He had modeled much of his own personal moral code after the man.
Waking early in his bed, to a dark winter morning, Nick had an idea. He decided that he wanted to change things this time. Partly to thank Danny in a way that he hadn't thought to before. Also to test this new reality and its limits. His mind was ping-ponging from topic to topic meandered into the kitchen. Pleased with himself, Nickolas raided the pantry for ingredients to make breakfast. He made drench toast, in the way he had come to love it in his later years, with cinnamon and a dash of chili. He brewed coffee on the old gas stove and warmed up some of the ever-present rabbit sausages. All the while laying out all the ways in which he would change things.

He was setting out the breakfast table when Danny came through the front door to the cabin. "She never cooks like this for me," he grumped on his way to get himself coffee. "I didn't do for him either you old goat," Jeanie called from the other side of the door. Still, on the little deck that served as a mudroom to the cabin, Nick knew she was returning from her morning ritual. Every day she woke early to take care of the horses. Which consisted of a light workout, rub-downs, and fresh feed. He had heard Jeanie leaving as he was getting out of bed, and had assumed Danny was still sleeping. He'd felt a smug sense of satisfaction at beating Danny to rise. A feeling that now soured in his mouth as he wondered where the man had gotten off to this early. "What's this then, a teenager who can cook for himself?" There was much amusement and warmth in their banter. "Unlikely!" Danny barked.

"No, it's true, he's been out here banging around and muttering to himself for an hour already." She retorted. "Honestly, it must be a family trait." Nick laughed out loud at that. "Come on you two, let an old man have his fun, there's no harm in it," he groused back still smiling. "Let's eat!" Catching a look pass between them. He finished with, "you know Danny gets grumpy there isn't anything to complain about." The breakfast was cheery and light-hearted. Both adults remarked at the sophisticated flavor combinations.
Later, outside he made a show of taking notes as Danny explained the project to him. He even went drew a site plan and an elevation sketch. They finished prepping and clearing the land before the sun went down. During lunch the next day Nick suggested they order the concrete for the foundation. It would move the schedule up two days earlier than planned, but Danny agreed. On Thursday morning, a loud crunching sound announced the concrete truck's arrival. Nicklaus experienced a feeling of pride as it came down the gravel driveway.

He watched as the concrete pumped into the forms and reflected on why this feeling was different. He realized that he had not been proud of any personal accomplishment for at least a decade. The last five years of his career he had been more or less just "going through the motions." After he retired he had made an effort to find hobbies and pick up things that he always wanted to do. His pursuits ended when he found out that he had advanced prostate cancer. It had been three months after retiring. Of course, his children and his grandchildren had been a constant source of pride. Standing here feeling the pride of personal accomplishment again. He realized that there was a difference between the two. This was important.

After that Nicholas and Denny took most of the day off. Returning every few hours to spray water onto the top layer of the concrete as it cured. That evening the three of them went to Danny's favorite restaurant in Medford. It was a quaint two-room Mexican diner. All yellows, browns, and exaggerated ethnic decor. Danny spent the evening harassing and flirting with the waitress in turns. It was all done in good humor and with a twist of self-deprecation. Jeannie would roll her eyes and act offended. Even though Nicholas could see how much she admired and adored his grandfather. Watching their good-natured repartee, he checked his memory to see if there was a dinner the first time. At first, he couldn't remember it. After a few moments, he realized that they had all gone out to dinner with his mother. She had driven down to pick him up before Christmas. The dynamics were different then. With his mother there, Danny had still given the waitress a hard time. Only he had done it without the flirtatious encouragement.
His mind raced down half-forgotten and math and physics journals. Searching for everything he knew about quantum time. He realized, with a mild start that he had at this point completely accepted his new reality. He was struggling to recall something about time loops. Paradoxes had proved impossible as a loop would self-correct. It had to do with quantum probabilities. He couldn't remember exactly when the mathematics had been discovered. He did remember how it changed popular science fiction.

So how was he here? The question nagged at him, it plagued him for the rest of that dinner and on into the next day. By mid-morning as they were beginning the second stud wall of the garage Denny gave him a nudge. " Hey, where is your head at today?"
" You know, I really can't say," he smiled. But not saying wasn't the same is not knowing. It had been years since anything had occupied his mind in such a fashion. Nick could remember how in his thirties and forties he would focus on problems to the exclusion of all else. Sometimes for weeks. With an effort of will, he put the matter on a shelf to retrieve later and focused on the tasks at hand. Three days after that he and Danny stood watching as a crane lowered the gabled trusses onto the top of the garage. on Sunday, December 16th, thirteen days after starting, they finished. A two-car garage and workshop, cedar shingles, peg-boards, tools, and all.
